---
Title: The M-Shed Warehouse
Slug: M-Shed
Date: 2016-12-04
Tags: ["Warehouse", "Museum", "shed"]
Categories:
  - tourism
Thumbnail: "https://media-cdn.tripadvisor.com/media/photo-s/06/a6/b7/e8/m-shed.jpg"
---

*M-Shed* is the name of a museum/gallery in the Port of Bristol. The
museum is located in several of the port's former cargo storage sheds,
which were named in alphabetical order. Since the main block was built
in shed `M`, hence the name *M-Shed*.

I'd been wanting to visit for a while to see what they had on display,
and a few days ago someone at work mentioned that they offer guided
tours of the warehouses, where they store a lot of objects that, for
one reason or another, aren't on display to the public. A lot of old,
"secret" junk? I had to go. So we arranged a day and went to see it.

The tours are led by volunteers and are a way to raise awareness of
all those objects that would otherwise remain hidden forever, since
they have no place to display them. One of the first things our guide
told us was that each of them (the guides) has knowledge about some
objects and not about others, so she recommended we go back and take
the tour with another guide who could tell us about different
objects. And no wonder, it was huge. In fact, the warehouse took up
the entire *L-Shed*. It was a storage facility, with dozens of shelves
filled to the brim with junk bearing labels. Others, due to their
size, were leaning against the wall or on the floor. There was
everything: remnants of Bristol's industrial past in the late 19th
century, ship models—both old and new—gear measuring 2 meters in
diameter, computers from the 1960s and 1970s...

<a data-flickr-embed="true" data-footer="true"  href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/149690786@N07/31276712642/in/album-72157677325015396/" title="PB240300"><img src="https://c3.staticflickr.com/6/5480/31276712642_32e626f4a3_z.jpg" width="640" height="361" alt="PB240300"></a><script async src="//embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

We started by looking at a photo of the port and the storage sheds in
the 1960s, with all the cranes in use. He told us that the cranes are
still working, and in fact, they use them from time to time if they
need to move something from the warehouse (we'll see an example
later). If anyone doesn't know what cranes I'm referring to, take a
look at the [Old Ships][old ships] post.

We also saw a lot of old bicycles and motorcycles. Some were in decent
condition, others were only in working order. Apparently, there was a
motorcycle factory, Douglas, that became very famous during the First
World War, as it manufactured thousands of motorcycles for the army.

   <a data-flickr-embed="true" data-footer="true"  href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/149690786@N07/30599983814/in/album-72157677325015396/" title="Sin título"><img src="https://c7.staticflickr.com/6/5708/30599983814_98f2c1fba1_z.jpg" width="640" height="480" alt="Sin título"></a><script async src="//embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

This is a carriage used for official functions by the Mayor, or by a
higher-ranking official, if necessary. It is said that Queen Victoria
used it on a visit to Bristol, although this is unconfirmed. The use
of carriages declined over time, and not merely for technological
reasons: whoever was elected mayor had to bear the maintenance costs
not only of the carriage itself, but also of the horses, stables, etc.

It is in very good condition and can be used if necessary. To remove
it, they use the port cranes. The city council no longer owns stables
or horses, and if they ever need to use it, they hire the horses.

   <a data-flickr-embed="true" data-footer="true"  href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/149690786@N07/31276675542/in/album-72157677325015396/" title="Sin título"><img src="https://c7.staticflickr.com/6/5836/31276675542_7333ec2cd5_z.jpg" width="640" height="360" alt="Sin título"></a><script async src="//embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Another of the most striking curiosities is this small probe. It was
manufactured here at the University of Bristol and is a prototype
probe for measuring cosmic rays. This particular probe was never
used—because it was a prototype—but NASA did use others based on it.

   <a data-flickr-embed="true" data-footer="true"  href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/149690786@N07/31276672902/in/album-72157677325015396/" title="Sin título"><img src="https://c7.staticflickr.com/6/5493/31276672902_31d253c99f_z.jpg" width="640" height="480" alt="Sin título"></a><script async src="//embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

In the shed, there were a lot of remains from Bristol's aeronautical
industrial past, but the most curious was this wheel from the [Bristol
Brabazon][brabazon], a gargantuan plane built in 1949 that was
something like the Titanic of aviation: a luxury transatlantic liner
with two decks that included a gym, cinema, and bar. Despite its size,
it would only carry 100 passengers, each with 6m³ of space (8m³ for
the premium class). To give you an idea, 8m³ is like being inside a
cube measuring 2 meters on each side (2x2x2). When I travel to Spain
with EasyJet, my space must be, roughly speaking, something like
0.6x0.8x1.8 (and that's being generous), that is, less than 1m³.

I'm not going to add more things, because I could be writing for
hours. In the [album][album] there are more pictures (I'll make
comments, I haven't had time yet). I will surely come back and take
more photos and learn new things.

[album]: https://www.flickr.com/photos/149690786@n07/albums/7215767325015396/with/30599995824/
[Brabazon]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/bristol_brabazon
[old ships]:/posts/barcos-viejunos/
