---
title: The Flat
slug: el-piso
date: 2016-04-19
tags: 
  - bristol
  - flat
categories:
  - personal
---

The apartment I chose may not have been one of the best I could have
chosen—although I was in a bit of a hurry, to be honest. On the one
hand, it's fine; it's not very big (in fact, it's tiny), but I don't
need much more for myself. However, I've started to notice some
details that aren't good. It's not that I'm grieving, far from it, but
they are things that bother me, and you don't realize they are until
you move in.

For example, one of the things I didn't notice when I saw it before
signing is that neither the kitchen nor the bathroom have
radiators. In the morning, you're left feeling freezing when you go to
have breakfast and shower. The landlord seems sensible and has left
two portable radiators; but they don't heat anything compared to the
wall-mounted ones. They still work in the bathroom, but there's no way
to heat the kitchen. I don't know if in a few days, when I've cooked
and such, it will warm up. Although I doubt it because, unlike the
living room and bedroom, it doesn't have double glazing. Neither does
the bathroom. There's also no thermostat, so you have to keep track of
when to turn each radiator on and off. It's all a bit of a pain,
really.


Another thing that bothers me quite a bit—although it seems to be a
common occurrence in the UK, not just in this apartment—is that there
isn't a single fucking outlet in the bathroom. Nothing. You have
nowhere to plug in your razor or your hairdryer (although that's not
my problem, as we all know). I think it's for safety reasons, because
of the mixing of water and electricity. But anyway... I don't know, a
bit stupid. The kitchen doesn't have an extractor hood. That's a
problem with this apartment in particular, not the UK. It seems silly,
but I didn't realize it at the time. Today I put water on to boil, and
when I came back to check on it, I found a hell of a London fog. Of
course, the steam had nowhere to escape, so it's just like when you
get out of a really hot shower. So you have to open the window and let
the heat out (because in this house we respect the laws of
thermodynamics and we know that the cold doesn't come in, it's the
heat that goes out).

{{< youtube Rpc2i6tMX2k >}}

Another thing: the outlets and switches. I don't know who planned it,
but they definitely missed class that day. There isn't a single outlet
in the kitchen downstairs; they're all on the countertops. Very
practical for the microwave or the blender, but I can't put one of the
portable heaters in the kitchen because the cable doesn't reach; I
have to carry an extension cord. And even if it did, you'd have to
carry a cable down the middle of the countertop. Very useful. And the
hallway switch, let me explain. The house is basically the hallway,
from which you access the four rooms: kitchen, bathroom, dining room,
and bedroom. Normally, you keep the doors closed so that the heat from
the dining room and bedroom doesn't escape into the ice caps of the
kitchen and bathroom, as I mentioned before. So, with the doors
closed, you can't see a thing at night when you leave a room. And the
hallway light switch is 1.20 meters from the nearest door. Also very
convenient to use.

On the plus side, I'll say that, except for the kitchen, the rooms
heat up pretty quickly. The ceiling is low, about 2.30 meters, so
there's less air to heat. It's also quite bright, and since it faces
two sides, it gets sun both in the morning and in the afternoon (well,
when it's sunny, of course).

{{< youtube vj6Bd0RZswM >}}
