---
Title: The food
Slug: la-comida
Date: 2016-04-24
Tags: 
  - food
Categories:
  - misc
thumbnail: /img/market1.jpg
---

The food here is quite unusual. First, the schedule. I think I've
already mentioned this in another post, but hey, I'll repeat myself a
bit and fill the space. I suppose you already know the mealtimes
are like here: they wake up with the sun, have a good breakfast, one
that will get you wasted, and off to work/school. The truth is, I
haven't had breakfast with anyone, so I don't know what that *daily*
breakfast consists of. I emphasize *daily* because then there's the
classic English breakfast, which is usually eaten on the weekend,
when you have more time. Sometimes, even outside the home, just to
treat yourself or to avoid cooking.

During the workday, they don't usually eat much. Most people usually
get a fairly popular meal deal. It's a kind of 3-for-2 deal or
something like that: you can choose a sandwich (sometimes they have
more things, like pasta tupperware or salad wraps), a soft drink
(although not all of them), and a bag of chips or a chocolate bar
(again, not all of them are valid); all three for £3.00. They take
this around twelve, and that's enough for them until dinner, which is
usually around six or seven in the evening. Maybe even earlier. Oh,
and before that, they have a pint or two after work—at 5:00 PM. On an
empty stomach.

Since I mentioned pints, let's talk about beer. In every pub you go
to, you'll find at least 10 different brands of beer and/or cider. And
I'm not exaggerating. It's not like in Spain, where not only there
aren't that many brands, but in one bar you have Mahou and in another
Cruzcampo, and that's it. No. Here, in every pub, you have a ton of
brands to choose from: light, dark, more toasted, fruitier, more
fizzy, less fizzy… Sometimes even including the pub's own beer!

Another funny thing is the fish. Aside from the well-known fish and
chips, which I haven't seen much of either, there isn't much fish. In
the supermarkets, the fishmongers are rather scarce, both in terms of
surface area and products, and same with the frozen. In fact, in what
I've seen of Bristol, I've only seen one fishmonger. Strange.

What there is, and a lot of, are food establishments. Sandwiches,
hamburgers, sweets, fast food, junk food, Asian, Pakistani, South
American… tons of them. The most common, without a doubt. Food and
clothing. And in any supermarket you go to, regardless of its size,
the number of shelves dedicated to pastries and chocolate is
ridiculous. It can easily be between 10% and 20% of the store
dedicated to chocolate and buns. And a lot of soft drinks, too. With a
ton of flavors, which is good; it's not the typical orange-cola-lemon
flavor of Spain. There's strawberry, currant, mango, cherry… And
they're delicious.

But what I like the most are street food markets. It's a street market
with food stalls, and they move around the city. On Thursdays, they
set up a market in the square right outside the office, and everything
is quite good. It's homemade food, cooked right there. I've decided to
try everything, so every week I go to a different stand. So far, I
have two favorites: one that makes rustic venison burgers in brioche
buns, and another that makes vegetarian falafel wraps.

<center>
<img src="/img/market2.jpg" width="80%"/>
</center>
