---
title: Travelling
slug: travelling
date: 2025-07-04
tags:
- travel
- brno
categories:
  - tourism
thumbnail: img/travel.jpg
---

Let's not kid ourselves: traveling is a pain, an inconvenience, a real
bore. I'm talking about the trip itself, the travel, the
transportation. Then the rest is fine: visiting other cities or
countries, learning other customs, seeing other cultures... But the
trip? The worst.

Let's take, as an example, my recent trip from Bristol (England) to
Brno (Czech Republic). The "bulk" part of the trip, that is, the
flight to Prague and the train to Brno, are 2 hours and 2.5 hours
respectively; a total of about 5 hours, including a bit of a delay and
such. But of course, that's not the trip. You have to leave home and
get to a hotel. From door to door, it was no less than 11 hours.

The first thing is to get to the airport. Since it was a weekday and
during office hours, I couldn't trick anyone into giving me a ride, so
I took the airport bus. I left home at 11:45. Luckily, the stop was
close, so I didn't have to walk far in the sun. At 12:03, I got on the
bus. My flight wasn't until 3:00, but of course, the bus only came
once an hour. The 2:00 bus was too late, and the 1:00 bus was too
risky because, although I was lucky this time, they tend to be
late. Once, I waited for over half an hour and ended up taking an Uber
because the damn thing didn't show up. About 30 minutes later, I
arrived at the airport. I checked in my bag, ate my lunch peacefully,
and went through security at 12:57.

That's another thing: security. Another huge pain in the ass of
traveling. In the summer, it's more bearable. A little. But only
because you have less clothes to take off. Put your suitcase on one
tray table. Take out your laptop and all your electronics, put them on
a different tray table. Take out everything from your pockets. If
Saturn is in retrograde, you also have to take off your shoes. And
your belt. Stand in the scanner. If there are an even number of cars
in the parking lot, you'll be patted down. And tested for
explosives. Woe betide you if you forgot to take something out of your
pockets! Meanwhile, your suitcase is already at the end of the
conveyor belt, and you're checking for some clever person who might
snatch something that isn't theirs. Or not. Maybe it's still in the
X-ray machine because you have a bag of Mentos inside, and they've
decided those round shadows are suspicious and are going to make you
open it and show your spare underwear to anyone nearby.

You can't bring water. WATER! The basic substance for life, the one
you're going to need for the next 7 hours of travel. Well, no. Someone
decided that liquids are dangerous, and even if you bring a new,
freshly bought, sealed bottle, you can't bring it in. Because the
rules say no, it's not going to be nitroglycerin. And even if you
prove it's water, security wasn't hired for their reasoning skills or
their common sense. No. They were hired for their ability to make your
trip more uncomfortable. Don't despair, the airport staff has thought
of everything, and you can buy more water INSIDE the airport, at twice
the price of premium gasoline.

Now it's time to wait. It's scorching hot, and the terminal is packed
with people. But packed. Bursting. More than at Christmas. And there
aren't enough seats because the airport has already thought of
everything (except you) and has rented the space to bars, restaurants,
food stalls, candy stands, etc. All at double the normal price, of
course. It's only fair.

Well, it's finally time to board. Those with priority boarding go this
way, the commoners there... and in the end, both of us end up queuing
to board the same minibus that takes us from the terminal to the
plane. The suckers who paid extra for speedy boarding haven't even
realized the scam. Suckers.

At 2:42 PM, I'm already seated on the plane. The driver speaks to
us. Boarding completed, but what happened was something unintelligible
thanks to the poor quality of the speakers, and we're going to be
standing still, inside the sardine can, in the sun, for at least 15
minutes. Great.

The captain speaks to us again. He says things haven't improved, but
that we're leaving now. Ah, very well. Couldn't you have done it
sooner, then? It's already 3:35 PM.

The flight itself isn't great either. The person who designed the
plane took the seat measurements using his 12-year-old daughter as a
reference, which means the rest of humanity is screwed. We're sitting
badly, as Steve Jobs would say. Then, always, ALWAYS, you either get a
bachelor party, who think they're on their own or that we all care too
much about the nonsense they say, or a couple of whiny kids with a
future in the opera.

If you've still managed to find a position where your kneecaps aren't
pulverizing and you're managing to get some sleep, don't worry,
because it's time for the cabin attendant (chief steward) to turn the
volume up to 12 to give a 7-minute message about the many things you
can buy on board and how you can pay, and the magazines you can read
and the discounts you can get.  Which doesn't matter a bit to you,
because you're on a plane, not in a shopping mall. But the airline has
already thought of everything, to charge you extra for eating at
30,000 feet.

When you close your eyes again, it's the captain's turn to tell you
his life story, and how well the flight is going, the speed, the
altitude, the weather, the time, the flux capacitor, and a bunch of
other crap that you absolutely don't care about because what you want
is to be let go so that when you wake up you're already on the ground
and don't have to suffer their trivialities.

In the end, sometime around 6:10 p.m. local time, you land. You have
to go through passport control again (just in case someone gets lost
in the air, I suppose), go pick up your suitcase, and find a way to
get from the airport to the train station.

A Czech guy wearing a T-shirt that said something like "Airport
Assistance Staff" tells me there's an Airport Express bus that goes
directly to the station. Okay, so where do I get the ticket and the
bus?  Here, at this machine, look, press here and here. Boom, 40
kroner later, ticket in hand and off to the platform. At the platform,
there are some gadgets that say "validate your ticket before
boarding." Okay, I validate it. The gadget makes a noise like a
dot-matrix printer and writes something on the ticket. Oh, so now I
only have 60 minutes to use it. 50 if I'm in zone I don't know
what. Am I in zone I don't know what? No idea, there are no maps. What
happens if the bus is late and the 60 minutes run out while I'm
inside? No idea. We'll figure it out, by fair means or foul.

The bus arrives. The bus driver tells me, with better English than the
Czech guy, that that ticket isn't valid, that it's for trolleybuses,
trams, and regular buses, and that this bus is a 100-kroner
ticket. For an airport help desk, the idiot was of little
help. Anyway, off to buy another ticket.

I finally arrive at the Prague train station. Very pretty. From the
outside. Inside, it's as ugly as Atocha, or even more so. It turns out
the old building is no longer in use; the actual station (apart from
the platforms) is all underground. After asking three different
people, I manage to find a ticket to Brno. It leaves in an hour! Time
to wait again. What a pain.

Of course, the people at the train station have already thought of
that and filled it with restaurants, shops, etc. But first things
first. Pee. And I have to pay the extortion, or I won't pee. And all
this with my suitcase and backpack on my back, and in the scorching
heat. Or cold if it's winter, it doesn't matter. It's clearly
uncomfortable.

I find a piano. Look, maybe I can take advantage of it to practice a
little and pass the time. It's even more or less in tune! Ah.  Half
the keys don't work. Some don't even move. I thought it was too
pretty... I also find a LEGOÂ® model of the train station. Huge. And
quite impressive, very cool.

Anyway, after much boredom, the train finally arrives, and we leave
for Brno. 8:47 p.m., there wasn't another one before. I'm going to
arrive at one thousand. Night falls while the train quietly and
shakily rattles along. Alliteration is an English thing, don't pay too
much attention to it. One thing RENFE could learn from is that they
give passengers free bottles of water. A Czech girl walked by
distributing them. One thing RENFE perhaps shouldn't copy is that at
no point did I have to show my ticket to anyone or scan it anywhere. I
got on the platform, got on, and no one questioned my presence there.

The pilot spoke occasionally through the loudspeakers, first in Czech,
and then in English. Or what I thought was English. Or maybe what he
thought was English. Aside from "passengers," the fact that the
speakers were from AliExpress and that he spoke with slurred words
like a rake in a Zen garden made him hard to understand. And I think
the same thing happened in Czech, because there was a group of kids
who made fun of him every time he spoke. I don't speak Czech, but I
understood that perfectly.

Anyway. We're almost there. When I arrive in Brno, it's already 11:30
PM, and I've read almost half of the book I'm bringing. Now I have to
figure out how to get to the hotel, but I take the easy way: a
taxi. Well: fast, yes; but not easy. The taxi in front of the queue,
well... he doesn't speak English. He's an elderly man, close to 60, if
not 70, and I think he has Parkinson's, because his head moves like
those dolls you put on your dashboard. In the end, using sign
language, Google Maps, and a lot of patience, he figures out where I
want to go and takes me.

I arrive at the room at 11:55 PM. Loaded with my suitcase, backpack,
and generally burdened, having left home 11 hours or so ago. Travel
sucks. Let's hope they invent teleportation soon.
